JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: And I'm Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We bring you the
"NewsHour"
tonight from the Quicken Loans
Arena in Cleveland,
Ohio, site of the 2016
Republican National
Convention.
GWEN IFILL: A defiant Ted Cruz
shakes up the
Republican Convention, as
nominee Donald Trump
prepares to take the stage
tonight.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I sit down
with the party's
vice presidential pick, Mike
Pence, on what
he'd bring to a Trump presidency
and the nominee's
recent remarks on foreign
policy.
GOV. MIKE PENCE (R-IN), Vice
Presidential
Candidate: It's been a long time
since NATO
was created, and I also think
Donald Trump
has spoken very wisely about the
need to rethink
the mission of NATO.
HARI SREENIVASAN: I'm Hari
Sreenivasan in
Washington with a look at what
the instability
in Turkey means for Europe.
GWEN IFILL: All that and more on
tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
GWEN IFILL: For Donald J. Trump,
the moment
is at hand. The Republican
presidential nominee
addresses this convention, and
the nation,
tonight. It comes as the
campaign is making
a bid for unity, after a day, if
not a full
week, of division.
Correspondent Lisa Desjardins
begins our coverage.
LISA DESJARDINS: Today's
walk-through for
Donald Trump and daughter Ivanka
at the podium
where they will each speak
Tonight Was Customary.
And then, came the mic test.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
I love the media. They're so
honest. They're
such honorable people. I love
Cleveland. I
love Ohio. It's great to be
here. Thank you,
everybody. I love Cleveland. And
they're doing
a great job. And the police are
doing an incredible
job. Thank you very much.
ANNOUNCER: Ted Cruz of Texas.
LISA DESJARDINS: But much of the
day was dominated
by what happened last night,
when Trump's
primary challenger, Texas
Senator Ted Cruz,
balked at endorsing the nominee.
SEN. TED CRUZ (R), Texas: Stand
and speak
and vote your conscience. Vote
for candidates
up and down the ticket who you
trust to defend
our freedom and to be faithful
to the Constitution.
(SHOUTING)
(BOOING)
LISA DESJARDINS: As he finished,
Cruz was
booed off the stage. And his
wife, Heidi,
was escorted off the convention
floor to safety,
while Trump delegates vented
their anger.
WOMAN: I'm ticked. Who does he
think he is?
He lost. He's a poor loser. I'm
ashamed of
him. He's done, as far as I'm
concerned, in
the Republican Party.
LISA DESJARDINS: Some Cruz
supporters, on
the other hand, defended their
man.
MAN: I don't blame him either
way. You know,
it was a very bruising primary.
I think some
of Trump's attacks on him were
nasty and personal.
And so I can understand why
there's still
some hesitation, but, again,
it's a decision
of conscience.
LISA DESJARDINS: Later, Trump
took to Twitter
to say: "Ted Cruz got booed off
the stage,
didn't honor the pledge to
support the party's
nominee. I saw his speech two
hours early,
but let him speak anyway. No big
deal."
DONALD TRUMP: Lyin' Ted Cruz.
LISA DESJARDINS: During the
primaries, Trump
had referred to Cruz as lyin'
Ted and attacked
his family members. This
morning, the senator
showed no sign of backing down
at a breakfast
for his home state's delegation.
SEN. TED CRUZ (R): I am not in
the habit of
supporting people who attack my
wife and attack
my father. And that pledge
wasn't a blanket
commitment that if you go and
slander and
attack Heidi, that I'm going to
nonetheless
come like a servile puppy dog
and say thank
you very much for maligning my
wife and maligning
my father.
LISA DESJARDINS: Cruz wouldn't
say if he will
vote for Trump, but said he
would never vote
for Democrat Hillary Clinton.
Trump campaign chair Paul
Manafort argued
that the show of party divisions
may actually
rally Republicans behind Trump.
PAUL MANAFORT, Trump Convention
Manager: In
a backhanded way, even with what
Senator Cruz
did, we think Mr. Trump's
commitment to unifying
the party was enhanced last
night. Senator
Cruz, the strict
constitutionalist, chose
not to accept the strict terms
of the pledge
that he signed. So, as far as
the contract
was concerned, he was the one in
violation,
not anybody else.
LISA DESJARDINS: All of that
demonstrates
why unity will be at the top of
the agenda
on this fourth and final night
of the Republican
Convention, where the theme will
be make America
one again.
Speakers leading up to Trump's
keynote address
will stress unity, leadership,
solidarity,
and trust, all in an effort to
shore up support
for their nominee. The lineup
includes tech
billionaire Peter Thiel, a
co-founder of PayPal,
and Oklahoma Governor Mary
Fallin, co-chair
of the Republican Platform
Committee.
Those outside the Quicken Loans
arena are
braving scorching heat to show
their opposition
to Trump. Demonstrators took to
the streets
this afternoon, and plan to
rally again this
evening.
Over the convention's first
three days, there've
been about two dozen arrests,
far fewer than
initially expected.
For the "PBS NewsHour" in
Cleveland, I'm Lisa
Desjardins.
GWEN IFILL: We head down to the
convention
floor now.
NPR's "Weekend Edition Sunday"
host -- I always
have trouble with that -- Rachel
Martin is
with us this week and next for
our joint "PBS
NewsHour"/NPR prime-time
coverage of the conventions.
Rachel, I see you're in the
Washington delegation.
What are you watching for
tonight?
RACHEL MARTIN: Well, there's a
whole lot of
electricity in the hall, as you
might imagine,
Gwen, because this is the big
night. This
is when Donald Trump comes out
and accepts
his party's nomination to be
president of
the United States.
But as you heard in Lisa's
reporting, it's
been a tumultuous few days and
there are a
lot of sore feelings after Ted
Cruz's speech
last night, so people here today
are ready
to turn the page. They're going
to be looking
to Donald Trump to unify this
party.
In the speech that he's about to
give, we
will hear a lot of the themes we
have heard
throughout the week of an
unsteady world,
of it's a chaotic world. He
wants to be the
strong and steady arm that can
kind of steer
America in the right direction.
Could also be the most scripted
thing we have
seen him, although his son said
he might go
off-script, which his supporters
are probably
looking forward to -- Judy and
Gwen.
GWEN IFILL: Thank you, Rachel.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And earlier
today, I sat down
with the vice presidential
nominee, Indiana
Governor Mike Pence, here in the
Cleveland
in the arena for an in-depth
interview about
the convention, the race ahead,
and how his
own views match up, or don't,
with those of
the man who chose him.
Governor Mike Pence,
congratulations on your
nomination to be vice president.
GOV. MIKE PENCE (R-IN), Vice
Presidential
Candidate: Thank you, Judy.
We're very humbled.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In your speech
last night,
I don't think there were very
many dry eyes
when you gestured up in the
stands to your
mother.
GOV. MIKE PENCE: Or mine.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you said you
thanked her,
you went on to talk about your
family, about
growing up. What was that moment
like?
GOV. MIKE PENCE: It was very
emotional, very
emotional.
My grandfather emigrated to this
country.
My mom grew up in a family of
immigrants.
And just to think that I could
walk out on
the stage and accept my party's
nomination
for vice president of the United
States, and
be able to share that moment
with my mother
and with my wonderful wife, our
three children,
was almost inexpressible.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Speaking of
family, the other
-- one of the other major
speakers last night
was Senator Ted Cruz, who, in
saying why he's
not endorsing Donald Trump,
cited his own
family.
He said he could not bring
himself to support
somebody who had criticized his
wife and his
father. And he's referring, of
course, to
Donald Trump saying his father
was involved
in the assassination of John F.
Kennedy.
Do you understand why this is a
hard thing
for Ted Cruz?
GOV. MIKE PENCE: Senator Ted
Cruz is my friend.
And I'm glad he came to the
Republican National
Convention.
I was glad we also heard from
Marco Rubio,
and Chris Christie and a great
speech from
Scott Walker.
But I recognize primaries are
difficult things.
We had a field of outstanding
candidates.
And primaries get a little bit
rough. And
it takes some time for people to
get beyond
those things, Judy.
But I really appreciate the fact
that he came,
that he congratulated Donald
Trump on winning
the Republican nomination. And
then he expressed
support for our shared
conservative values.
And I think, as time goes on,
that you are
going to continue to see more
and more Republicans,
independents, and many Democrats
rally to
that cause. And we're going to
elect Donald
Trump as the next president of
the United
States.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You have said
some very -- as
you are now, very complimentary
things about
Donald Trump.
It's also the case that you have
spent virtually
your entire life as a deep
believer in Christian
values, Christian conservative
values. That
has not been a centerpiece of
Donald Trump's
campaign. Do you think you are
going to be
able, with your own beliefs, to
persuade him
on issues like LGBT rights, on
-- I don't
know, on the issue of abortion?
Do you think
you can change his views in
those areas?
GOV. MIKE PENCE: Well, I think
Donald Trump
is pro-life.
And I believe in the sanctity of
life, and
we have had some heart-to-heart
conversations
about the Supreme Court of the
United States
and about the importance of
making sure that
our next president appoints
justices to the
Supreme Court who will not only
uphold the
rule of law, but will -- that
will advance
the principles enshrined in the
Constitution
of the United States.
I'm grateful for Donald Trump's
pro-life views.
And I'm grateful that he's
expressed those
views so publicly and openly.
And, look, the
American people know that there
are issues
that divide us very quickly, and
they're issues
that are often matters of the
heart for every
American.
But the challenges facing our
country today,
I think, have even more even to
do with America's
place in the world, with a
struggling economy
that isn't producing the jobs
that Americans
long to see, with the kind of
economic policies
that seem to have other
countries winning
and America losing.
Donald Trump is speaking about
those issues,
Judy, and I think that's why not
only do you
see tremendous unity in the
Republican Party,
but you see a lot of
independents and a lot
of Democrats that are being
drawn to this
movement. And I'm excited about
the chance
to continue to carry that
message across the
country.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, speaking
about America's
role in the world, let me ask
you about foreign
policy.
Donald Trump gave an interview
to The New
York Times this week in which,
among other
things, he said, if Russia
attacked one of
the small Baltic nations,
Estonia, Latvia,
Lithuania, that he would come to
their aid
only after reviewing their
commitment to NATO,
whether they fulfill their
obligations to
us, as he put it.
This is a departure not only
from Republican
Party views, but from what is
really mainstream
foreign policy thinking in this
country. It's
been supported by a majority of
American presidents
going back to, I'm told, Harry
Truman.
What do you say today to the
citizens of these
NATO countries about whether the
U.S. is prepared
to come to their aid?
GOV. MIKE PENCE: Donald Trump
made it clear
in that very interview that
America will stand
by our allies. We will uphold up
our treaty
obligations, including the
mutual defense
agreement that is NATO.
But what Donald Trump has also
said -- and
quite apart from the fact that
America keeps
its word and you can tell Donald
Trump keeps
his word -- that what we're also
going to
do is say to our allies around
the world,
as we face $19 trillion in
national debt,
that it's time for them to start
to pay their
fair share.
We provide an enormous amount of
resources,
particularly with regard to
military resources,
to countries all over the world.
And in many
cases, those countries are not
compensating
the American taxpayer for the
commitment that
we're making to their security.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Doesn't this
inject a note
doubt about whether the U.S. is
going to be
there when they need support?
(CROSSTALK)
GOV. MIKE PENCE: No. No, Judy, I
think -- I
don't read The New York Times
every day, but
I think that article actually
said that -- he
said we would absolutely, was
the word that
he used, absolutely stand by our
allies and
stand by our treaty obligations.
But that's not -- it's a
separate question,
but it's just as important, that
we don't
continue to burden the taxpayers
of America
with these commitments all
across the globe,
that we say to other countries
with whom we
stand in solidarity in their
defense and the
defense of their freedom, that
we need you
to partner with us.
I mean, it's been a long time
since NATO was
created, and I also think Donald
Trump has
spoken very wisely about the
need to rethink
the mission of NATO.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well...
GOV. MIKE PENCE: It was a Cold
War alliance,
but now we face, in many ways, a
more asymmetrical
threat, with the rise of radical
Islamic terrorism.
And rethinking NATO's mission
and its ability
to confront that threat to our
freedom is
just as important.
JUDY WOODRUFF: He made a couple
of other points
in the article, one having to do
with Turkey,
where there has been enormous
turmoil recently,
an attempted coup.
He said he didn't believe the
U.S. should
try to pressure the president of
Turkey, who
has been rounding people up,
imprisoning people,
shutting down news
organizations.
Where are you in terms of
whether the United
States should be supporting and
espousing
democratic values, small-D
democratic values,
in other countries that are
going through
a situation like this?
GOV. MIKE PENCE: Well, I don't
think we have
to choose between standing by a
strategic
ally and articulating our
commitment to democracy
and individual freedom.
We have done that throughout our
history.
And with regard to Turkey, I
have been to
Ankara. Turkey is a democracy.
We certainly,
we certainly, in the future,
ought to encourage
our ally to live up to their own
democratic
institutions and their own
democratic ideals.
But make no mistake about it.
With the rise
of Islamic terrorism, radical
Islamic terrorism
in the world -- excuse me --
with the rise
of ISIS, our alliance with
Turkey is more
important than ever before, the
ability to
have access, to move resources
into the region
and also, most importantly, to
engage Turkey
fully in the battle against
global terrorism,
is -- about protecting the
American people.
So, absolutely, yes, we should
stand by our
allies, but we should also stand
by our ideals
and work with our allies and
encourage them
to live up to the democratic
institutions
and traditions that they enjoy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You have long
been a proponent
of free trade.
GOV. MIKE PENCE: Still am.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But how do you
square that
his saying he would scrap NAFTA
and other
treaties in a second, unless he
could make
sure that countries like Canada
and Mexico
do something to benefit American
companies?
GOV. MIKE PENCE: I support free
trade. Donald
Trump supports free trade.
Trade means jobs. Jobs in the
United States,
jobs in my home state of Indiana
are supported
by international exports. But it
doesn't mean
that we don't work hard to make
sure that
those are good deals. And NAFTA
itself has
a provision in it that called
for periodic
reviews of the economies of the
countries
who had signed the treaty to
ensure that the
deal was working for everybody.
And what I hear Donald Trump
saying about
that deal and about other trade
deals is,
let's just keep looking and
let's just make
sure that, as we continue to --
as we continue
to expand our economic
relationships with
countries around the region and
around the
world, that we're doing it in a
way that's
a win for the American worker
and for American
jobs.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Last question.
A lot of, I should say, the talk
at this convention
from the stage and from the
delegates has
been pretty harsh criticism of
Hillary Clinton.
We have heard, "Lock her up." We
have heard
-- we have seen the signs,
"Hillary to prison,"
talk of indicting her.
Is this -- you're somebody who's
been outspoken
against negative campaigning. Do
you think
it's been over the top, as even
some Republicans
have said? And do you think it's
been a wasted
opportunity, so far, to talk
about what's
positive about Donald Trump?
GOV. MIKE PENCE: Well, first, I
think that's
what freedom looks like.
The American people get to
express themselves,
and in the ways that they
choose. But I have
got to tell you, I -- this
convention, I have
sensed a tremendous amount of
energy, a tremendous
amount of unity, not around the
personalities,
but around the choice that we
face this fall.
In Donald Trump, you have
someone who will
bring real change to Washington,
D.C. He's
a bold leader. He's distinctly
American. He
doesn't play by the
old-fashioned rules. He's
going to Washington, D.C., break
up the status
quo, and I believe get this
economy moving
again and have America standing
tall in the
world.
And Hillary Clinton, by
contrast, is the very
embodiment of the failed status
quo that Republicans,
Democrats and independents are
tired of and
weary of. Now, I want to be
clear.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But for the last
three nights,
"Lock her up" has been a refrain
we have been
hearing.
GOV. MIKE PENCE: People are
frustrated, $19
trillion in national debt that
just hasn't
been piled up by Democrat
administrations.
It's been nearly doubled under
this administration.
But, frankly, you know Judy --
you have known
me for a long time -- I have
battled against
the big spenders in my own
party, back when
I was in Congress. The truth of
the matter
is, the American people are
looking at Washington,
D.C., and saying, enough is
enough.
We want a different type of
leadership. We
want a different direction for
this country.
And that's why I truly do
believe that Donald
Trump will be the next president
of the United
States.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Different, but
does it have
to be so negative, is my
question?
GOV. MIKE PENCE: I think we have
got to lay
out the choice for the American
people.
It's a choice between change and
the status
quo. And I really do believe, we
get out,
we work our hearts out, we carry
our message
to the American people, a
positive vision,
but also laying out the choice
and the stakes,
I truly do believe we will have
a great victory
for the American people this
fall.
JUDY WOODRUFF: After a tough
campaign.
Governor Mike Pence, the
Republican nominee
for vice president, thank you
very much.
GOV. MIKE PENCE: Thank you,
Judy. Good to
see you again.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And from there,
we go to our
team of analysts here in the
booth, who are
with us all evening and all week
and next
week, David Brooks of The New
York Times,
syndicated columnist Mark
Shields, and Amy
Walter of The Cook Political
Report.
So, let's talk a little bit
about what you
heard.
David Brooks, Mike Pence and
Donald Trump?
DAVID BROOKS: Pepto-Bismol. He
calms things
down.
And so he's a very conventional
conservative,
very -- pretty orthodox
conservative, somebody
who's been involved in
Republican circles
forever, has such a sweet
disposition. And
so he takes the things Donald
Trump says and
he sorts them, makes them seem
normal.
And one of the things the Trump
campaign has
got to do is try to make him
seem like a normal
candidate. And Pence has managed
to be good
at that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Amy?
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: And
he's incredibly on message.
This is the one person you don't
have to worry
about freelancing. What we have
seen at this
convention and what we saw from
some of the
other candidates who were sort
of in the race
for vice president, like Newt
Gingrich, they're
going to go off on their, sort
of riff on
their own sort of tangent.
Mike Pence is going to do what
the Trump campaign
needs him to do, period,
exclamation point.
The other thing that Mike Pence
does besides
soothing the edges of Donald
Trump, is he
soothes a lot of candidates
down-ballot.
You can send Mike Pence to any
one of these
battleground states where the
Senate majority
is on the line, and candidates
are going to
want to stand with him, even
those candidates
who aren't going to show up at a
Trump rally.
GWEN IFILL: Mark, you have to
listen carefully
to Judy's conversation with Mike
Pence to
realize that sometimes he's
actually disagreeing
with the guy whose ticket he's
on.
But -- so when he says he's
going to go and
have a heart-to-heart with him
whenever they
have mild disagreements, not
that people care
if vice presidents and
presidents agreed all
the time, does that mean he can
make a -- that
he can engineer a change of
heart if he feels
strongly about something?
MARK SHIELDS: Probably not.
That's not the
historic role of vice
presidents.
They don't have that much
influence on the
presidential candidate who has
won the nomination
and given them -- the only
person that has
a vote in the vice presidential
nomination
is the presidential candidate.
But I do want to say about Mike
Pence, it's
the first Reaganesque figure we
have seen
at this convention.
GWEN IFILL: What do you mean?
MARK SHIELDS: In the sense of
Ronald Reagan
was an upbeat, reassuring and
civil and just
appealing figure.
In the conversation with Judy,
there wasn't
the adversarial. There wasn't
the chip on
the shoulder. That's not part of
Mike Pence.
And I thought his speech last
night was quite
Reaganesque in the sense of
putting a smiling
face on conservatism, which has
been missing
this week.
DAVID BROOKS: It should be said
this is not
like the distinction between Joe
Biden and
Barack Obama or Ronald Reagan
and George H.W.
Bush.
This is not like, oh, we have
got two normal
guys, they're in the party and
they have some
differences. This is here and
here. Ronald
Reagan was an upbeat,
market-oriented, outward-looking,
sort of optimistic,
future-oriented politician.
Donald Trump is a fear-oriented,
backward-looking,
closed-in politician.
GWEN IFILL: Let's talk about a
lot of other
things going on tonight,
because, tonight,
we're going to hear from Donald
Trump, the
big nomination acceptance
speech.
And all day long, it's been kind
of overshadowed
by what Ted Cruz did last night.
They're not
talking about Mike Pence.
They're not talking
about even what Donald Trump is
expected to
do. They're talking about the
fact that Ted
Cruz kind of poked the candidate
in the eye.
Amy.
AMY WALTER: I have never been at
a convection
where as much time and energy
was expended
on what's going to happen in the
next election
than what's going to happen in
this one.
And while Ted Cruz did it most
aggressively
by basically coming out to
somebody's party
and, you know, just spilling the
drinks everywhere,
every other candidate has also
gone up there
and done a much more subtle way
of saying,
you know what, I have a
different vision of
where our country is going and a
different
vision for where the party needs
to go than
Donald Trump does. I'm going to
stand up here
and say that he's the nominee.
That doesn't mean they're all
lining up behind
him. This last day, though, this
is Donald
Trump's day. He's not going to
rescue this
convention. It's still going
down in history
as being unconventional and
disruptive.
But he has a chance here to make
a good impression.
And I think the good news for
him is that
the bar is much lower than it
was before we
started this.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mark Shields,
what is the burden
for Donald Trump tonight? What
does he need
to do?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, oh, sure.
Well, the burden -- just one
quick thing on
Ted Cruz, and that is, he had a
chance, like
Ronald Reagan did in 1976 in
Kansas City,
to make the case for electing --
or, you know,
really separating himself as a
distinct political
figure. He chose not to.
And as Jeb Bush and John Kasich
chose not
to endorse and honor their
pledge to endorse,
they stayed away. He came to the
room to do
it, high-risk politics for him.
As far as our nominee, Donald
Trump, tonight,
Judy, he's got to excite his
base. He's got
to unite the country. It's a
mood for change
in the country. But the problem
with Donald
Trump is that the change he
represents, to
a majority of Americans right
now, is not
reassuring. It's unreassuring.
And I think that's his job
tonight, and especially
to lay out a jobs program.
JUDY WOODRUFF: David Brooks?
DAVID BROOKS: First, on Cruz, if
I can get
my bite in, I start with the
proposition that
Trump is not a normal
politician.
He doesn't cross the threshold,
and this is
going to end very badly for him,
either in
November or beyond. And if you
start with
that premise, then what Ted Cruz
did, while
nakedly ambitious, was
courageous and probably
the right thing to do. If your
party is sliding
into some sort of chaotic land
of hollowed
out, then if you stand before
history and
yell stop, you will be rewarded
in years and
years to come, in the way that
none of the
others will be.
As far as Trump, he has picked
law and order
as his theme. And so he has got
to persuade
Americans that their fundamental
problem is
violence, and that crime and
terrorism are
the first things on their
agendas affecting
their lives, and, therefore,
they need a guy
like him. I'm not sure that's
true, but I
think that's more less the task
he has assigned
himself.
GWEN IFILL: David Brooks, Mark
Shields, Amy
Walter, thank all you very much.
Well, we have a lot more to talk
about, if
you need more, which I'm sure
you do. Tune
in later tonight, beginning at
8:00 p.m. Eastern
time, for our special NPR/"PBS
NewsHour" coverage
of the Republican National
Convention in Cleveland.
Now we will go back to Hari
Sreenivasan in
D.C.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Thanks, Gwen.
In the day's other news: Donald
Trump raised
concerns at NATO after
suggesting he wouldn't
automatically defend allies
against Russia,
unless they pay more of the
cost. He told
The New York Times -- quote --
"If they fulfill
their obligations to us, the
answer is yes."
The head of NATO said two World
Wars prove
peace in Europe is also
important to U.S.
security.
In France, investigators say the
man behind
the deadly truck attack in nice
may have started
planning a year ago. Mohamed
Bouhlel killed
84 people last week when he
drove a truck
down a beachside promenade
packed with Bastille
Day revelers. Now a search of
his phone suggests
he'd been thinking about it for
months.
FRANCOIS MOLINS, Paris
Prosecutor (through
translator): It found
photographs of Nice's
fireworks dating back to July
14, 2015. Yes,
I said 2015. And it found a
photograph of
a newspaper article dating back
to January
1, 2016, appearing in a local
Nice newspaper,
headlined -- and I quote -- "Man
Charges Into
a Restaurant Terrace With a
Truck."
HARI SREENIVASAN: Five suspects
already in
custody are facing terrorism
charges for allegedly
aiding in the attack.
Federal police in Brazil say
they have broken
up a possible terror plot during
the Summer
Olympics. Brazil's justice
minister says 10
suspects pledged allegiance to
the Islamic
State group and talked of
striking during
the Games. He says they had no
specific targets
yet. The Olympics begin in Rio
de Janeiro
on August 5.
The highest tribunal in sports
today rejected
Russia's appeals to let its
track and field
athletes compete in Rio. They
have been banned
over allegations of systematic
state-sponsored
doping.
Ian Payne of Independent
Television News reports
from Lausanne, Switzerland.
MATTHIEU REEB, General
Secretary, Court of
Arbitration for Sport: the Court
of Arbitration
for Sport has dismissed the
request filed
by the Russian Olympic Committee
and 68 Russian
athletes.
IAN PAYNE: So, 68 Russian track
and field
athletes are banned from Rio
unless they can
prove they have not been
involved in doping.
So, stars such as double Olympic
poll vaulting
champion Yelena Isinbayeva, who
trains in
Russia, will not appear. She has
described
the position as the funeral of
athletes.
MDNM-Now the IOC must decide
whether to
ban the entire Russian team,
which won 82
medals at London in 2012,
including 24 golds.
Russian sport has been in the
dark for the
last 18 months, and this week a
report claimed
Russian secret agents had
swapped positive
drug tests at their laboratory
during the
Sochi Winter Games.
In Russia, as the athletes
prepared for the
Games, the reaction was one of
sadness and
anger
ALINA VISHNITSKAYA, Russian
Sprinter (through
translator): This decision is
really frustrating.
For some reason, clean sportsmen
who have
never been caught doping will
have to carry
this responsibility with
everyone else. I
wouldn't want this to ever
happen again.
IAN PAYNE: Elsewhere within the
sport, the
reaction was quite different.
USAIN BOLT, Olympic Gold
Medalist: If you
are the court and you catch
somebody, I definitely
feel that you should take
action. And if you
feel like banning the whole team
is the right
action, then I'm all for it, you
know what
I mean?
IAN PAYNE: The attention will
now switch to
the International Olympic
Committee, who also
have their headquarters here.
Legally, they
now have the green light to ban
the entire
Russian team.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The IOC
Executive Board
meets Sunday to consider that
question.
Back in this country, Florida's
state law
enforcement agency will
investigate the police
shooting of an unarmed black man
in North
Miami. Behavioral therapist
Charles Kinsey
says he was trying to return an
autistic patient
who had wandered off Monday.
Cell phone video
showed Kinsey down on his back
with his hands
up, and identifying himself,
before he was
shot. He spoke from his hospital
bed yesterday.
CHARLES KINSEY, Shooting Victim:
And I'm standing
there. I'm like, sir, "Why did
you shoot me?"
And his words to me, he said, "I
don't know."
As long as I got my hands up,
they're not
going to shoot me. This is what
I'm thinking.
they're not going to shoot me.
Wow, was I
wrong.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The police
chief said his
officers had been told there was
a man with
a gun threatening to kill
himself. It turned
out the autistic man had a toy
truck.
The U.S. Justice Department
filed suit today
to block two major mergers in
the health insurance
industry. Aetna wants to buy
Humana for $34
billion, while Anthem is trying
to buy Cigna
for $48 billion. Justice
officials say the
deals would hurt competition and
consumers.
The companies say getting larger
will help
them cut prices.
FOX News Channel CEO Roger Ailes
has resigned.
Parent company 21st Century Fox
announced
it late today, and said it's
effective immediately.
Ailes faced growing allegations
of sexual
harassment.
And on Wall Street, stocks gave
some ground
after a week-plus rally. The Dow
Jones industrial
average lost 77 points to close
at 18517.
The Nasdaq fell 16 points, and
the S&P 500
slipped seven.
And the National Basketball
Association is
moving next year's All-Star Game
from Charlotte,
North Carolina, over a state law
on transgender
bathrooms. The statute requires
people to
use public restrooms matching
their sex at
birth. A league statement says
it wants all
people to feel welcome at its
events, and
will choose another city.
Vice President Joe Biden spoke
today with
Turkish prime minister and
expressed -- quote
-- "unyielding support" for
Turkish democracy.
According to the White House,
this comes as
the crackdown after last
Friday's attempted
coup in Turkey continues. And,
today, the
Parliament cemented emergency
legislation
giving the government expanded
powers.
From Istanbul, special
correspondent Marcia
Biggs begins our coverage.
MARCIA BIGGS: Across Turkey this
morning,
reactions to the declaration of
emergency
ranged from fearful to
welcoming.
MAN (through translator): I
think it could
make things worse in a country
where we have
no freedoms.
MAN (through translator): I
think this is
the right move under the current
circumstances.
We are going through difficult
times.
MARCIA BIGGS: The move follows
last Friday's
failed military coup attempt,
which killed
nearly 250 people and wounded
hundreds more.
In his announcement last night,
Turkish President
Recep Tayyip Erdogan vowed to
cleanse what
he called viruses in the armed
forces.
RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN, Turkish
President (through
translator): This measure is in
no way against
democracy, the law and freedoms.
On the contrary,
it aims to protect and
strengthen them.
MARCIA BIGGS: Erdogan's
government had already
embarked on a sweeping crackdown
of mass arrests
and mass firings since the coup.
But Parliament's
overwhelming approval of the
state of emergency
fully authorizes him to impose
laws by fiat,
hold prisoners in jail longer
and take other
actions.
Turkey's markets reacted with a
slide, as
the lira tumbled to a
near-record low and
governments around the globe
reacted cautiously.
Germany called for emergency
rule to end as
quickly as possible. And in
Washington, the
White House also urged Ankara
not to go too
far.
JOSH EARNEST, White House Press
Secretary:
The United States is not going
to micromanage
the situation in Turkey. But I
think we are
going to send a clear,
unmistakable signal
of support for the democratic
institutions
of Turkey.
MARCIA BIGGS: Journalist Andrew
Finkel has
lived in Turkey for almost 30
years. He spoke
to us in Istanbul.
So, what does this mean for
Erdogan and his
power?
ANDREW FINKEL, Journalist: Well,
it means
that he will be free to move
against people
who he perceives to be his
opponents and his
enemies.
MARCIA BIGGS: Are there any
limits to this?
ANDREW FINKEL: It would be a
brave person
to try and impose those limits.
But the thing
is, even before the coup
happened, he -- we
were headed down an autocratic
path.
MARCIA BIGGS: Erdogan's
government blames
opposition cleric Fethullah
Gulen and his
followers for the coup. Gulen
now lives in
the U.S. in exile.
ANDREW FINKEL: He preaches a
nonviolent variant
of Islam. Most people would call
it a moderate
view of Islam. But his followers
were very
active in many forms of life.
And many believe
that his followers pursued a
policy of really
getting themselves in positions
of authority
in the bureaucracy, in the
police, in the
judiciary, et cetera, et cetera,
in order
to further the aims of the
movement.
MARCIA BIGGS: Here in Turkey,
many of those
followers attended more than 650
schools founded
by Gulen that taught over
200,000 students.
Once strong allies, Erdogan and
Gulen finally
broke in 2013 after Gulen
accused Erdogan
and his party of corruption,
even supplying
videotaped evidence.
ANDREW FINKEL: Mr. Erdogan
resented the Gulenists'
move on to occupy positions of
power and the
influence they had within his
own government.
MARCIA BIGGS: Can the country
handle losing
all these people?
ANDREW FINKEL: It's 60,000
people. It's a
third of the officer corps,
colonels or generals
or above. You know, who's
guarding the store?
MARCIA BIGGS: The numbers of
people affected
by this purge are staggering;
30,000 people
were suspended from their jobs
in civil service,
9,000 people were taken into
custody; 21,000
teachers had their licenses
revoked. Yet,
among all these people, we were
unable to
find anyone who felt free enough
to talk to
us about it.
Senel Karatas is the director of
Istanbul
Human Rights Association. This
week, she has
been helping the families of
soldiers in custody,
allegedly tortured by government
authorities
after the coup. We spoke to her
yesterday.
What does the purge mean for
you, someone
who fights human rights
violations on a daily
basis?
SENEL KARATAS, Director,
Istanbul Human Rights
Association (through
translator): Since the
coup, we have seen an extreme
rise of abuses
and maybe suspension of human
rights.
It was really good that so many
people have
solidarity against the coup and
prevented
it. But some people on the
streets started
to use this atmosphere as an
opportunity for
revenge
MARCIA BIGGS: Are you scared for
yourself,
for your country?
SENEL KARATAS (through
translator): Yes. The
state of emergency is the main
concern for
the future of democracy. It will
lead to a
rise in human rights abuses, and
we will fall
into despair.
MARCIA BIGGS: Turkey has now
suspended its
commitment to the European
Convention on Human
Rights. The deputy prime
minister insisted
today that -- quote --
"Standards of the European
Court of Human Rights will be
upheld," but
he didn't elaborate.
For now, Senel says she is
doubtful, but will
continue her work.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Marcia Biggs in
Istanbul, Turkey.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Turkey's
stability and its
commitment to human rights are
but two of
the challenges facing Europe in
the wake of
the attempted coup. Turkey is
also instrumental
in the fight against ISIS and
stemming the
flow of migrants and refugees
from the Middle
East to Europe.
Now we explore Europe's options.
Earlier this evening, I sat down
with Federica
Mogherini, the European Union's
top diplomat.
She is in Washington for a donor
conference,
raising money for humanitarian
aid to Iraq.
Thanks for joining us.
FEDERICA MOGHERINI, Foreign
Policy Chief,
European Union: Thank you very
much for inviting
me.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right, so
first things
first.
In the past week, Turkey has
been going through
a significant amount of turmoil.
There was
an attempted coup. They have
detained and
fired tens of thousands of
people. They are
now declaring a state of
emergency, and they're
saying that they want to bring
back the death
penalty.
So, aren't these the type of
violations of
human rights or civil liberties
that should
stop them from becoming a member
of the E.U.,
which they want to be?
FEDERICA MOGHERINI: You know,
what is happening
in Turkey is extremely
important, both for
Europe and America.
And we were saying together with
Secretary
Kerry that, as it was important
to stop the
coup, it is very important that
the reaction
to the coup is one that takes
into consideration
human rights, rule of law. And
we're seeing
in these days things that are
completely unacceptable,
being that against the word of
university
or media, the judiciary.
And we are saying very clearly
and loud, both
Europeans and Americans
together, that, yes,
the state institutions needs to
be preserved
democratically, so the
president, government,
Parliament, but that fundamental
freedoms
have to be respected and
protected. And we're
going to continue this way.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, what's the
leverage
that the E.U. has? Will you say
to Turkey,
if you do this, you're not going
to become
a part of the E.U.?
FEDERICA MOGHERINI: Well, we
have said it
very clearly.
For instance, if you introduce
the death penalty
that was abolished exactly for
negotiations
to enter the European Union, if
you are reintroducing
the death penalty, you are not
going to become
a member of the European Union.
That's very
clear.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, one of the
things that
you have been able to do with
Turkey is to
slow the flow of migrants coming
from Turkey
into Greece.
You have sort of orchestrated
almost a refugee
swap. If they can keep the
people coming across
from Turkey to Greece, perhaps
the European
Union can take some people from
Syria.
What if Turkey says, you know
what, stay out
of our business, we have to deal
with what
this attempted coup was, we have
to take the
measures we have to take? And
what if they
decide let's just let people
through, let
people go back to Europe again?
FEDERICA MOGHERINI: The deal we
had with Turkey
had nothing to do with the swap.
What we have decided to do and
what we are
doing is to support the hosting
of Syrian
refugees in Turkey, as we're
doing in Jordan
or in Lebanon. That's the
humanitarian thing.
And, by the way, it's also a
security issue.
I'm here in Washington today
because Secretary
Kerry invited this anti-Da'esh
coalition ministerial
meeting. It has to do with a
global effort
to manage the situation that is
spilling out
of Syria, with serious
consequences on all
the neighboring countries,
including Turkey.
Turkey is a country that is
hosting the largest
number of refugees in the world
at this moment.
So, the agreement we have with
Turkey is about
making lives of Syrian refugees
sustainable
and making the life of the
Turkish hosting
communities sustainable.
So, it's humanitarian. It's
aimed also at
preventing radicalization among
the Syrian
refugees. It's important. It's
in our interest.
It's in the interest of the
whole international
community. And we're going to
continue that
way.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But when you
talk about
radicalization, that is
something that Europe
is facing much, much closer than
even the
United States.
Well, who -- what do you do to
try and stop
the attackers that struck in
Paris, in Brussels
and Nice?
FEDERICA MOGHERINI: So, first of
all, we have
to realize that this is a global
challenge
that requires a global work, a
global coalition.
That is why it's so important
that America
and Europe stays together and
works together
in this respect. We have today a
partnership
between Europe and America that
is as strong
as ever. And this is extremely
important to
face this challenge together.
It's not something that comes
from the outside
of our societies. We see it in
here and we
see it in Europe. It's people
that were born
and raised in our own societies.
So there
is part of our work that is
focused on defeating
Da'esh on the ground in Syria,
Iraq, but also
in Libya and elsewhere, but is
also a cultural,
I would say, a social part of
the work, that
is aimed at preventing our own
youth to get
radicalized.
Take the case of Nice, somebody
that got radicalized,
if we can talk about that, in a
few weeks'
time. So, violence is somehow
preceding the
radicalization. It has nothing
to do with
religion, has much more to do
with violence.
So, this is the kind of effort
we're doing,
together with our Arab friends,
also with
a strong component of the Asian
partners in
those efforts, because the risk
is not only
for Europe. It's for United
States, for the
Middle East, obviously, but also
for Asia,
as we have seen in many
different places.
It's a global effort, and this
is why we need
America to stay engaged.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Speaking of
America, you
have said that part of the
strategy going
forward for the E.U. is to
strengthen E.U.
relations with the NATO allies.
The Republican candidate for
president just
said that he would make NATO
response to a
crisis conditional on those
countries paying
more for the protection. What do
you think
of that?
FEDERICA MOGHERINI: You know, in
Europe, we
are strengthening our defense
capabilities,
including also investment in
defense capabilities.
But I think that everybody here
in America
understands very well that NATO
has provided
peace and security, not only for
Europe, but
for all of the Western world,
for so many
decades. It's part of our
history. I think
it's part of our future. And
when NATO is
investing in security also in
Europe, it's
doing that also for America's
security.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Is there a
position that
the European Union might take if
Donald Trump
does come into power and if he
wants to implement
the strategy?
FEDERICA MOGHERINI: You know, I
have my own
personal opinions, preferences,
political
views.
But the point is that Europe and
America need
to work together, are bound to
work together.
In a world like this, with
terrorism, conflicts,
crisis, dangers everywhere, you
need friends.
And Europe and America are the
best friends
we can find on both sides of the
Atlantic.
So, on the European side, we are
committed
to work with America in any
circumstances,
with any president that is
elected. What I
can say, though, is that I
remember very well
when Obama was elected in 2008.
In his first
speech in Chicago, he was saying
about restoring
friendships and alliances that
were, let's
say, going through difficult
times.
I think he delivered on this.
And I can only
hope that the next president
will do the same.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Federica Mogherini,
thanks so much for joining us.
FEDERICA MOGHERINI: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Next, our
series The end
of AIDS wraps up in South
Africa, where, this
week, many of the world's top
scientists,
researchers and advocates are
meeting in Durban.
Among the topics: Is the end of
AIDS really
a possibility?
Perhaps no nation has paid as
steep a toll
from AIDS as South Africa has.
But, as correspondent William
Brangham and
producer Jason Kane report, few
other nations
are doing as much to push back
against the
virus.
This is the final report in our
series, which
has been supported by the
Pulitzer Center
on Crisis Reporting.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: As the world
races to end
the HIV/AIDS epidemic, many are
looking to
South Africa, which has more
ground to cover
than anywhere else.
They're sending out fleets of
bike messengers
to deliver lifesaving drugs.
They're testing
as many people as they can,
educating others,
running some of the world's top
state-of-the-art
research labs. They're even
trying this, surfing
lessons as HIV prevention.
South Africa has more people
infected with
HIV than any nation on Earth.
Over six million
people here have the virus. Only
half of those
are being treated, so South
Africa also has
one of the greatest challenges.
SALIM ABDOOL KARIM, CAPRISA: One
out of every
five people living with HIV in
the world lives
right here in South Africa.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Salim Abdool
Karim is one
of the leaders of South Africa's
fight against
HIV/AIDS. He runs CAPRISA, a
major research
lab in Durban.
SALIM ABDOOL KARIM: We estimate
that there
are about 1,000 new HIV
infections in South
Africa each day.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Every single
day?
SALIM ABDOOL KARIM: Every single
day. And
what's critical in that, it's
not just that
there's all this HIV, but that
young women
are a key factor in the
highest-incidence
populations.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: This is the
Desmond Tutu
HIV Foundation Youth Center in
Masiphumelele
Township in Cape Town. This is
the place that
uses surfing, among other
things, to keep
kids engaged in its HIV program.
Here, Linda-Gail Bekker is
trying to prevent
young women from ever getting
HIV in the first
place. Some studies indicate
that up to 8
percent of teenage girls will
become infected
every year in parts of South
Africa before
they reach their mid-20s.
LINDA-GAIL BEKKER, Desmond Tutu
HIV Foundation
Youth Center: These are
unprecedented around
the world. We have to do
something about this.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Bekker's
center is trying
something few other places in
the world are
trying. They're offering
uninfected teenage
girls PrEP. It sands for
pre-exposure prophylaxis.
And as we have reported in this
series, it's
a once-a-day pill which greatly
lowers your
risk of becoming infected if
you're exposed
to HIV.
WOMAN: You need to take your
pill every day
so that you can stay protected
by the pill.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Bekker says,
this isn't
just crucial HIV prevention for
these young
women. It's also empowerment.
Too often, she
says, young girls here have very
little say
in their own sexual lives and
sexual health.
WOMAN: By not taking your pill
every day,
you might be in risk of getting
HIV.
LINDA-GAIL BEKKER: For the first
time, we
have something that works if
people take it,
but it works for them. It's in
their hands.
So, a young woman can swallow a
pill a day.
She is in control. She decides
whether she
swallows that pill or not, and
she doesn't
have to have a conversation with
her male
partner about what he does and
doesn't do
under the circumstance.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Of course,
these innovations
come after a very dark history
that drove
the spread of HIV in South
Africa. For years,
apartheid era laws created a
system where
black men were forced to travel
long distances
from their rural homes to find
work, often
in the nation's mines.
Many slept with HIV-positive sex
workers,
and then brought the virus home
to different
regions. But even after the end
of apartheid,
and as the HIV epidemic
deepened, former President
Thabo Mbeki questioned whether
HIV even caused
AIDS.
THABO MBEKI, Former South
African President:
How does a virus cause a
syndrome?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Mbeki was
widely criticized
for hindering South Africa's
response to the
epidemic. One study estimates
his policies
led to the deaths of over
300,000 South Africans.
Mbeki was president when Mpumi
Mevana was
diagnosed with HIV.
MPUMI MEVANA, HIV Patient: I was
diagnosed
in the corridor by the doctor in
Johannesburg
Hospital. "No, my dear, we can't
help you
in this situation, because
you're HIV-positive."
So, I went home that day,
thinking that this
is the end of the story for me.
I'm waiting
for the day I'm going to die.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: This
37-year-old single
mother from Soweto is almost
completely blind,
because of a virus that can
strike HIV-positive
people who aren't getting
treatment.
But in a sign of the times,
Mevana is now
being treated in one of the most
innovative
clinics in Johannesburg. The
Right to Care
clinics treat more people with
HIV in South
Africa than anyone else. It's
9:30 in the
morning, and they have already
seen 300 patients
so far. They see 12,000 to
15,000 a month.
Ian Sanne is the founding
director and CEO.
IAN SANNE, Founding Director and
CEO, Right
to Care: This clinic happens to
be the most
efficient clinic in South
Africa. It's probably
one of the largest.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Sanne's goal
is to bring
the most modern technologies to
bear on HIV
treatment in South Africa. They
have built
a robotic pharmacy to speed drug
dispensing.
WOMAN: First, you insert your
card in there.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: They have
built this prototype
ATM-like machine to dispense HIV
drugs far
away from clinics. They use
electronic medical
records and bar coding
throughout the system.
And wait times in many South
African clinics
can be more than half-a-day, but
here, Sanne
says, they average less than an
hour. He says,
remember, South Africa has over
three million
people more people who aren't
being treated
today, so every facility
nationwide has to
scale up.
IAN SANNE: In my view, we don't
have a choice.
We actually have to make this
work.
DR. AARON MOTSOALEDI, South
African Minister
of Health: How do we
successfully run this
world's biggest treatment
program?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Dr. Aaron
Motsoaledi is
South Africa's minister of
health. He points
out that South Africa has made
huge gains
in recent years.
In 2004, only 400,000 were being
treated for
HIV. Today, 3.4 million are. In
2004, 70,000
babies a year were born
HIV-positive, but
treatment has brought that down
to less than
6,000 a year. But Motsoaledi
says achieving
these advances in so short a
period of time
has stretched the country's
resources thin.
DR. AARON MOTSOALEDI: There's no
way on earth
you could increase the number of
doctors proportionately
within a decade.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So, for now,
the burden
of South Africa's expanded HIV
care falls
the hardest on its health care
workers.
Nobuhle Ndlela is a nurse in a
rural part
of KwaZulu-Natal in Eastern
South Africa.
Her day starts early, getting
her girls off
to school before she drives to
the HIV clinic
where she works.
KwaZulu-Natal is one of the most
HIV-infected
regions on the planet. At the
local hospital,
people routinely show up with
advanced AIDS.
They're often also infected with
tuberculosis,
another epidemic that's plaguing
South Africa.
T.B. is the leading cause of
death for HIV-positive
people here. It's estimated that
in many pockets
of KwaZulu-Natal, one out of
every three adults
is infected with HIV.
At the clinic where Ndlela
works, she says
the stream of patients coming
through her
door is overwhelming.
NOBUHLE NDLELA, Nurse: Too much.
I used to
see 260 usually per day. But on
the fourth
of this month, April, there were
305.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Three hundred
and five?
NOBUHLE NDLELA: Yes, because...
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: In one day?
NOBUHLE NDLELA: In one day.
So -- and it became even
difficult for me
to observe the patient properly.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: This woman
with her back
to us just received her
diagnosis a few days
ago. She asked that we not show
her face or
use her name.
She's told us she stares at the
sheet of paper
with her positive result on it
for hours,
in disbelief.
WOMAN: I didn't expect it to be
like that.
I was so shocked and surprised,
so disappointed.
I don't know how to explain it.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: She says she
was infected
by her boyfriend, who didn't
know or didn't
tell her about his own status.
She hasn't
yet told her two young sons the
news.
Why?
WOMAN: I'm not ready to tell
them. Even my
family, I never said anything to
them. So,
it's not easy.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: What are you
worried their
reaction is going to be? There's
a lot of
people in this community that
have it. It's
-- there's no shame in having
this disease.
(CROSSTALK)
WOMAN: They will think I'm going
to die. They
will not feel comfortable about
it.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: It obviously
doesn't feel
this way to her, but she's one
of the lucky
ones. Consistent HIV medication,
which she
will now get, can prolong her
life for decades.
She can still work, still be a
mom.
This is the challenge for so
much of South
Africa today: Find the people
who are infected
with HIV, but don't know it,
persuade them
to start treatment, and sustain
that treatment
for the rest of their lives.
SALIM ABDOOL KARIM: It's not
that we don't
know what to do. It's a
challenge of trying
to do what we know works, and to
do it at
a scale where it can really make
a difference.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: After a long
day treating
hundreds of HIV patients,
Nobuhle Ndlela is
tired, but not defeated.
NOBUHLE NDLELA: God knows every
step I take.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: She has a few
hours with
her daughters to pray and to
sing and to rest,
before she starts again,
wrestling against
an epidemic.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
William Brangham
in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You can
explore the entire
series The End of AIDS on our
Web site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
That's it from Washington for
now. I'm Hari
Sreenivasan.
GWEN IFILL: And from here in
Cleveland, where
Donald Trump is getting ready to
accept the
Republican presidential
nomination.
In an advance copy of his
planned remarks,
he promises an end to what he
calls poverty
and violence at home, war and
destruction
abroad. And he calls for a major
tax relief
and millions of new jobs.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight. I'm
Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
Join us at 8:00 p.m. Eastern for
our "PBS
NewsHour"/NPR special coverage
of the Republican
National Convention.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.